# Protocol
The protocol essentially has three parts which are interconnected and form the building block of the whole mechanism.

**Reputation system** - This part is the most important part as it forms the basis for the next two systems. Reputation system essentially provides the reputation for the various actors that are interacting with the protocol. The actors start with a base initial value which is the same for all actors. As various actions are performed, the reputation increases or decreases as per the impact of the action to the working of the protocol. Right actions are rewarded and faulty ones are punished. The reputation system rates the actors involved on a relative scale by a novel algorithm which is influenced by mixing algorithms like the elo algorithm used in chess ratings, or other rating systems like the ones used by codeforces or topcoder, etc.  Many factors influencing the rating of a user in the reputation system includes the active time spent by the user on the protocol, correct pieces of content reported/verified, staked amount, delegation by other actors, etc.

**Decision System** - This is a critical part of the system that adds value to the protocol by actually verifying if the reported piece of content is spam or not. The decision system takes in the votes of various actors and their reputations to sum up the total votes to arrive at a ‘R Value’ which ranges from 1-10 where the two extreme ends of this range defines the two opposite values (example, spam or not). The platform which integrates the protocol has the freedom to set the desired R value for their platform, where 10 represents totally strict and 1 represents totally liberal visibility of the pieces of content. Alternatively, this value can be customizable by the users of the platform for a user specific view of the contents on the platform. Also as the number of actors verifying content on the protocol rises, we will have systems in place like randomizing the allocation of content among various users so that no set of users can collectively influence their decision on the content of a platform.

**Reward System** - Reward system is meant to incentivize various actors interacting with the protocol to be rewarded to behave in the right manner via our token mechanism. The protocol will reward participants who add value to the protocol by rating, reporting and verifying content on the platform. Early and active participants will be rewarded more. More participation will lead to more rewards where positive actions will be rewarded and negative ones will be punished. Tokens will be staked on key actions like verifying if the reported piece of content is spam or not. If it turns out to be spam, actors who voted in favour of it will be rewarded as per their reputation while others will lose some part of their token. 
